Episode 1, George.
I first met Miki when we were both sixteen years old.
We were both students at Hemsworth College, one of the most prestigious schools in England.
I had been a boy there since I was thirteen, but Miki joined just for sixth form, when he was 16.
And, although I’m English – you can tell from my name, George,
Miki was from a small country in central Asia called Ankhazastan.
Geography was probably my worst subject and I had never heard of the place.
Miki was tall, good-looking with dark brown, wavy hair, charming and extremely intelligent.
And he oozed confidence – and that was helpful when we
sneaked out of school to go and drink in the local pubs.
Any barman would take one look at me and immediately ask my age.
But Miki would walk casually up to the bar and confidently order a beer
for me and a vodka for himself – he passed for eighteen every single time.
It was one of these evenings in the pub when I had just met Miki, when I found out about his father.
It must have been over thirty years ago now, but I remember it like it was yesterday.
A local yob – muscles, tattoos, bald head – wandered
up to our table and addressed Miki aggressively.
“I know you.
I’ve seen you in the paper.
You’re Demetriev’s boy.”
“Indeed you’re correct!” replied Miki.
His cultured, well-enunciated English contrasted with the yob’s rough accent.
The yob pressed on.
“Your dad’s a dictator, innit?
A real piece of work, the paper said.
He locks up anyone who doesn’t like him.
Probably tortures them too.
What do you say about that?”
Miki just smiled in his easy going way and said, “I’m
happy to hear that you’re interested in Ankhazastan.
Yes, it’s true we’re not a democracy, but we don’t torture people.
Why don’t you sit down?
I’ll buy you a beer and I can tell you all about it.”
Miki gestured at an empty chair next to him, and the yob stared at it for a moment.
“Nah, mate,” he replied.
“You can buy me that beer though.
I’ll be over there.” I was amazed at how smoothly Miki had handled the situation.
I wished I had his easy confidence.
When Miki returned from the bar, I asked him what all that was about.
I was shocked to find out that he really was the son of a dictator.
Miki described his father as a “benign dictator”, something like Julius Caesar.
“ Are you the eldest son?” I asked.
“The only son,” he replied.
I stared at him in amazement and admiration.
“That means…”
“ Yes,” he said.
“That means that one day I’ll be ruling Ankhazastan.”